hi friends
In this video we are going to learn the adjacency
list of a graph
So an adjacency list is one method to
represent a graph and first will see the case
of an undirected Graph So we have an and undirected
graph here and an adjacency list is actually an
array of list
And the size of this list will be equal to
the number of vertices in the graph
Now see this graph here and we have five
vertices in it so will have five list
And these lists will contain the neighbours of each Vertex
in the graph
So we will start with vertex zero and see which
are vertices are the immediate neighbours of vertex zero there
vertex 1 2 and 3 So the list will contain 1 2
and 3
So that is the first list 0 1 2 and 3 now consider
Vertex one and the immediate neighbours are 0 3 and 4
So we get 1 0 3 4 as the second list
and next we have vertex two and the neighbours are
zero and three and the list be like 2 0 3
Now take vertex 3 and the neighbours are 0 1 2 and
four and the list will be 3 0 1 2 4
And finally we have Vertex 4 and the neighbours of
vertex 4 are one and three
So the last list is 4 1 3 and that
is how we represent and undirected graph using and adjacency
list now let us see the case of a directed
graph and the concept is the very same
But we need to look for outgoing edges from each
vertex
Now this is our directed graph here and let us
take vertex zero first and from zero the recent edge
going to 1 2 and 3
So the list will be 0 1 2 3
Now take vertex one and there are edges from 1 2 3
and 1 2 4
So the list will look like this 1 3 4 next
we have vertex 2 And if you see the
recent edge from 2 to 3 and there is so so
the list will be like 2 3
Then we have Vertex 3 and see there is just
one outgoing edge and it is 4
So the list will be like 3 4 and finally we
have Vertex 4 and there is no outgoing edge from
four so that would be all
So that is how we represent a directed graph using
adjacency list